# Fundamentals

<!-- vim-markdown-toc GFM -->
* [What is Intern?](#what-is-intern)
* [Who is Intern best for?](#who-is-intern-best-for)
* [System requirements](#system-requirements)
* [Reading this guide](#reading-this-guide)

<!-- vim-markdown-toc -->

## What is Intern?

Intern is a complete framework for testing Web sites and applications. It’s built around standards like WebDriver and was designed from the ground up to be the most powerful, flexible, and reliable JavaScript testing system in the world.

Intern can test all sorts of things:

-   Plain JavaScript code, in any module format (or no module format!)
-   Web pages generated by server-side languages (like Java, PHP, or Ruby)
-   Native or hybrid iOS, Android, and Firefox OS applications

Intern is minimally prescriptive and enforces only a basic set of best practices designed to ensure your tests stay maintainable over time. Its extensible architecture allows you to write custom test interfaces, executors, and reporters to influence how your tests run & easily integrate with your existing coding environment.

Intern also comes with Grunt tasks so it can be quickly added to existing Grunt-based workflows, and is designed to work out-of-the-box with many popular continuous integration services like Jenkins and Travis CI.

Intern is used by companies large and small, including some you may have heard of, like Aerohive Networks, Esri, HSBC, IBM, ING, Intuit, Marriott, Mozilla, Stripe, and Twitter. We hope you’ll enjoy working with it too!

## Who is Intern best for?

Intern is best for development teams that want a complete, flexible, [standards-based](http://www.w3.org/TR/webdriver/), high-quality testing solution that Just Works. It’s best for testing JavaScript code, but it is also an excellent tool for testing server-generated Web pages or native mobile apps. Its built-in support for [source maps](http://www.html5rocks.com/en/tutorials/developertools/sourcemaps/) makes it uniquely well-suited for developers that compile their code to JavaScript from another language, such as TypeScript, or that run tests against production-ready built/minified code.

Intern is excellent for teams that are just beginning to write tests; its built-in [code coverage analysis](https://theintern.github.io/intern/#reporter-lcov) makes thorough testing fast and precise, and its [functional testing system](https://theintern.github.io/intern/#writing-functional-test) enables testing of highly procedural code that’s otherwise impossible to test.

Intern is a great choice if you’re hoping to transition away from your current testing library but already have a lot of tests, since its [extensible interfaces](https://theintern.github.io/intern/#interface-overview) make it possible to transition without needing to rewrite tests or learn a totally new set of APIs.

Intern’s execution model is well-suited to those that follow a test-last development approach and want to prevent regressions using continuous integration. It has also been used very successfully by teams that follow a test-driven development approach.

Finally, because of its strong architectural patterns, conventions, and expansive feature set, Intern is well-suited for testing extremely large, “enterprise-level” applications that must be maintained by large teams of developers with varying skill levels.

## System requirements

Intern can be used to run unit tests in any of the following environments:

|                   |       |
|-------------------|-------|
| Android Browser   | 4.1+  |
| Chrome            | 31+   |
| Firefox           | 17+   |
| Internet Explorer | 9+    |
| Node.js           | 0.10+ |
| Opera             | 26+   |
| Safari (iOS)      | 6.1+  |
| Safari (Mac OS)   | 6.0+  |

Intern can be used to run functional tests in any of the following environments:

|                                   |      |
|-----------------------------------|------|
| Android (browser, hybrid, native) | 4.1+ |
| Chrome                            | 31+  |
| Firefox                           | 17+  |
| Internet Explorer                 | 8+   |
| iOS (browser, hybrid, native)     | 6.1+ |
| Opera                             | 26+  |
| Safari (Mac OS)                   | 6+   |

All other environments are not currently officially supported, but should work as long as they correctly implement EcmaScript 5 (for unit tests) and/or WebDriver (for functional tests).

In order to execute functional tests, or to execute tests against multiple browsers at the same time, Intern also requires Node.js 0.10+ plus a WebDriver-compatible server.

The following WebDriver servers are compatible with Intern:

|                                   |         |
|-----------------------------------|---------|
| Appium                            | 1.3.0+  |
| ChromeDriver                      | 2.9+    |
| FirefoxDriver (Selenium)          | 2.41.0+ |
| InternetExplorerDriver (Selenium) | 2.41.0+ |
| ios-driver                        | 0.6.6+  |
| SafariDriver (Selenium)           | 2.41.0+ |
| Selendroid                        | 0.9.0+  |

Intern also has built-in support for cloud hosted services from [BrowserStack](https://browserstack.com/), [CrossBrowserTesting](https://crossbrowsertesting.com/), [Sauce Labs](https://saucelabs.com/), and [TestingBot](https://testingbot.com/).

## Reading this guide

Throughout this guide, you will find certain pieces of information are called out specifically, as we have found them to be especially important or problematic for users.

Features marked with a <span class="versionBadge">3.0</span> indicate that the feature is only available starting in that particular version of Intern.

> 💡 Sections that look like this contain advanced tips and tricks that can help you get the most out of Intern.

> 👎 Sections that look like this tell you about functionality that is deprecated and will be removed from a future version of Intern.

> ⚠️ Sections that look like this tell you about dangerous anti-patterns that can break, slow down, or make your code less maintainable.

Later sections of this guide are designed to be built upon knowledge presented in earlier parts. If you jump into the middle and feel confused, step back a section or two until you find the information you need to move forward. We also accept [pull requests](https://github.com/theintern/intern/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+label%3Adocumentation+is%3Apr) to the [documentation source](https://github.com/theintern/intern/tree/3.4/docs) in order to improve its flow and clarity.

